hey there are dnews I'm trace and we're
gonna talk to dr. Ian O'Neill down in LA
about the Perseid meteor shower hey Ian
how's it going hey it's ready sighs okay
well tell us a little bit about the
Percy it's what of it what are they what
are they for how'd that happen
well basically the Perseids are a meteor
shower and I have to write them this
time every year and it's basically when
the Earth passes through the cloud of
particles that were emitted from the
Comet swift-tuttle we keep seeing the
same Perseid meteor shower year after
year is this the only annual meteor
shower
there are many showers actually
throughout the year and we pass through
quite a few times because it was a lot
of comics out there that pass through
the inter-service system and our earth
goes through their tails like just like
the Perseus meets shower but my personal
favorite the Geminids that she happens
around about December time so where does
it get these names
Perseids and then you mentioned the
Geminids where where does that come from
well basically it's all connected to
Greek mythology and of course the
constellations basically the Perseids
are they actually seem to emanate from
the Perseus constellation which is a
Northern Hemisphere constellation so you
can see in the night sky too among
northern hemisphere and basically all
the meteors from the pursuit appear to
radiate and is called a radiant so
basically if they all appear to be
shooting from that one part in sky so
does this space debris eventually after
we go around and through it a bunch of
times is it gonna burn out I mean of
course there's only a certain number of
particles in this cloud and some kind
comments often disintegrating by I mean
there are some commentary commentary
tales that we go through these clouds of
dust that grungy gets eaten up over time
and because the colonies that died there
is one of these very long duration
comments that just flown through the
inner service from ejected out it leaves
its trace behind
so eventually just the earth and other
planets we keep on going through this
cloud burning up all articles and
eventually they will get depleted you
mentioned that Perseus is our northern
hemisphere constellation does that mean
the southern hemisphere won't get to
spot this one the the constellation
Perseus will be below the horizon if you
say Australia or anywhere in the
southern hemisphere
so it's very difficult to see any
leaders there will be there will be a
few that will probably you can probably
see it's very very bright ones when they
come overhead from horizon there's very
difficult in southern hemisphere so
what's the best place in time to take a
look at this Perseid meteor shower for
the date when the meteor shower actually
Peaks is going to be on the 12th and
13th if you got a clear sky go out after
midnight because remember you want to be
in like the dawn phase of the night meet
your spotting is the easiest formula
strong weeks just lie back with your
friends and try and count how many
meteors you see for per hour and you may
will see a lot you may want not see very
many it depends on the density of the
kind of traveling through at that time
but this year we may be lucky there
could be a record number of meters we
just do not know anything you don't need
a telescope you don't need binoculars
you can just lay down and spot them you
need no equipment apart from your eyes
so just make sure you get some good
glasses out and or your contact lenses
in and just lie back and watch well
thanks a lot Ian any other tips for a
meteor shower watching like if it's a
little cloudy what can I do
yes yes I had a great tip from our
in-house astronomer Mark Thompson diesel
the BBC astronomer as well when there's
these ionization trails in the
atmosphere radio waves will banks off of
them so what you need to do is try and
find a radio station in a city that's
around about thousand kilometres ways to
look at them that find a city find a
radio station as base in that city and
tune into the the FM signal that they
are transmitting on and you should just
hear static but when a meteor strikes
the atmosphere these very distant radio
waves banks off of the ionization trail
and you may well hear little pins and
you may well suddenly hear the radio
station come into focus and then
disappear because that's basically the
radio waves bouncing off the upper
atmosphere linking back bank to your
radio and you can actually do it I think
I'll be trying it this year
that's quite a fun little thing to do
well thanks a lot to talking to us in
and if you want to watch more dnews make
sure you keep coming back every single
day twice a day or you can find us on
Twitter Facebook and Google+ that was
dr. Ian O'Neill he's our resident space
producer for Discovery News com
thanks for watching dnews everybody
catch you later